August 10, 1519 – The Spanish fleet led by Ferdinand Magellan sailed westward from Spain to search for the Spice Islands on the other side of the world.
March 16, 1521 – The Spanish fleet arrived in the vicinity of Samar.
March 31 – The Spaniards celebrated a mass in the island of Limawasa, Leyte. The local chiefs, Rajah Kolambu and Rajah Siagu, attended. The chiefs also made an alliance with the Spaniards. 
April 7 – The fleet visited the port of Cebu. They also made an alliance with Rajah Humabon and baptized the Rajah, his wife, and their followers. Magellan gave the statue of the Santo Nino to the Queen of Cebu as gift during the baptism.
April 27 – The Spaniards battled Lapu-Lapu, in behalf of Humabon, in nearby Mactan island. Magellan was killed. The Spaniards withdrew and left Cebu and the Philippines. 
 
They eventually reached the Moluccas (Spice Islands), Indonesia; traded for cargoes of cloves and sailed for Spain.
September 8, 1522 – The galleon Victoria reached Spain. It was credited for the first circumnavigation of the world.
Spain sent succeeding expeditions to the Spice Islands, and later the Philippines, but failed.
April 27, 1565 – Another Spanish expedition led by Miguel Lopez de Legazpi entered the port of Cebu. When the Cebuanos opposed their landing, they cannonaded the kingdom. The Cebuanos retreated to the hills. The Spaniards established the first Spanish settlement in the port, but Cebuanos harrassed this settlement. 
June 4 – The Cebuanos, led by Rajah Tupas, were forced to recognized Spanish sovereignty.


June 1569 – The Spaniards occupied Panay.
May 1571 – The Spaniards, with the aid of a large Visayan force, attacked and defeated the Muslim kingdom of Manila ruled by Rajah Sulayman. They made Manila the capital of the colony. They also defeated or forced to surrender to Spanish rule the surrounding kingdoms.
May 1572 – They entered Ilocos and Pangasinan.
And within several years, the Spanish armies defeated or intimidated the different kingdoms of the Philippines into recognizing Spanish rule. Or the Spanish missionaries convinced them to accept foreign rule. Bicol, Samar, Leyte, and Northern Mindanao became parts of the Spanish colony.

https://tl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kasaysayan_ng_Pilipinas#Pamumuno_ng_Espanya_(1521%E2%80%931898)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magellan_expedition
https://www.slideshare.net/jekragaza/spanish-colonization